My friend Urjun was researching about
term plan and one name kept popping up I
predict smart and then he asked me is
this a YouTube algorithm glitch. I said
no it's just that ICICI credentials I
predict smart plus is one of the most
talked about term plans in India right
now but that begs the question is it
actually worth it or is it just a case
of great marketing? Hi folks I'm
Shashank and you're watching D
insurance. In this video, we'll break
down everything, and I mean everything,
that you need to know about this plan.
How's it structured, what benefits it
offers, the catch behind those low
starting premiums, and how it compares
with other major insurers, and most
importantly, whether you should buy it
for yourself. And hey, if this feels
like too much, just book a free call
with DTO's Advisor. We'll answer all
your questions, compare every plan out
there, and help you make the right
decision completely spamfree. The link
is in the description. All right, now
let's get into it. So, here's the deal.
I protect Smart is ICIC Potential's
flagship term insurance plan and it
comes from a company that's been in the
life insurance space for over two
decades. It's backed by ICICI Bank and
Credential PLC. It's one of the oldest
private life insuranceers in India and
they're currently managing over 19,000
cr rupees in business annually and over
the last 3 years they've averaged a CSR
of around 98%. Now that's not highest in
the market but definitely respectable.
Complaints though are significantly
higher than some of their peers about 11
complaints per 10,000 claims. Just
something to keep in mind. Now let's
talk structure. I Protect Smart Plus is
available in four benefit options. The
core one is the life option, a pure term
cover, no frills, no fluff. Then there's
life plus which includes an accidental
death benefit. There's a third one
called life and health but that includes
a critical illness payout. And the final
one is a smart exit version which
combines the term cover with a zerocost
exit benefit later in life. And the
smart exit bet is interesting because
after year 25 of your policy if say
you're about 60 years of age and you've
crossed the minimum premium paying term,
you can choose to exit the plan and get
back all your base premiums. Not
excluding taxes and riders, but
everything else you've paid gets
returned to you. You essentially walk
away with your money if you feel you
don't need life cover anymore. Now,
that's pretty rare, but even without the
zero cost exit, the policy comes with a
quite a few baked in features. They've
got terminal illness cover from day one,
which means if your doctor says you've
got less than 6 months to live, the
insurer will pay out the full summer
insured immediately. There's also life
stage increase option. Let's say you get
married, have kids, or take a home loan.
Your summers increases automatically.
That's up to 50% for marriage, 25% each
for the first and second child, and up
to 100% of the cover if you take a home
loan. You can also pause premiums for a
year after 5 years of continuous
payments. That's a feature that's super
useful if you ever hit a financial
crunch. And ICICI also offers an
advanced payout of three lakh rupees to
the nominee within one business day of
claim if the policy is over 3 years old
and the summer is 1 cr or more. Now,
that's immediate help for funeral costs,
travel, and other urgent needs. Now, you
also have the option to add riders.
You've got a critical illness rider, two
versions actually of that. One that
covers 20 illnesses and another one that
covers 60 illnesses. And this rider
isn't one of those accelerated types
where your life cover reduces if you
claim it. Here, your life cover stays
intact even after the payout, which
means it is a good income replacement
tool if something serious happens.
There's also the accidental death rider,
but as always, we you don't usually
recommend that here at DTO because your
base term plan already takes care of all
types of death including accidents. So,
the accidental rider doesn't always
justify the extra cost. Okay, now let's
talk about where most people drop off.
That is when they see the premiums or
they might be more interested. I'm going
to explain the actual price behavior,
not just show you the table. for a
25-year-old non-smoker male taking a 1
cr cover till 865. ICICI's first year
premium is around 10,600 but from the
second year later it jumps to 12,123.
That's because ICIC gives a flat 12.5%
discount in first year for salaried
folks under the regular pay option. So
yes, year 1 looks very competitive but
the true cost starts from year 2. For a
30-year-old smoker female taking a 2
crore cover till age 860, the premium
jumps to 28,700
and that stays flat because the discount
works slightly differently in that
bracket. Now when you compare ICICI to
its peers like HDFC's click to protect
super access max life STP or Tata AI's
SRP plan or even Bajage Alliance's Eouch
2, you'll notice one thing that's
interesting. ICICI is not the cheapest
across the board. In fact, for young
non-smokers, access and Tata often come
cheaper. But where ICI shines is for
older profiles or high-risisk categories
like smokers or people opting for higher
cover amounts. That's where pricing
strategy becomes more favorable. Also,
don't forget ICICI includes features
like premium break, instant claim
advance, and zero cost exit, which
aren't always available or included in
the base version of competitor plans. So
yes, while their premiums might seem
slightly higher in some cases, you're
actually getting more featurerich
product. If you're wondering which
version of the plan to choose and
whether to add riders or not, now is the
perfect time to book a free consult with
our advisers at DTO. We'll help you
personalize your term insurance
strategy, compare all the plans in the
market, and explain the exact
differences so you don't overpay or
underinsure. The link is in the
description. All right, now let's sum
this up. I Protect Smart Plus is a
well-rounded plan. It offers long-term
protection, a lot of flexibility, and
some genuinely useful in-built features.
The terminal cover, lifestage boost,
smart exit, premium brake, and fast
claim processing. They're actually
practical tools that can support your
family in crisis. Where it lags slightly
is in complaint resolution speed. Not
the worst, but not the smoothest either.
And if you're looking for the absolute
lowest premium with no bells and
whistles, you might find better prices
elsewhere. But if you're someone who
wants a robust plan that grows with your
life stages, gives your family quick
access to funds when they need it and
even allows you to exit later without
losing all your money, then this is
definitely a plan worth considering. And
if you're still confused, we get it.
It's okay. Insurance is complicated and
we get it. And that's exactly why we
built it. Book a free call with us.
Let's go over your goals, clear your
doubts, and make sure you walk away with
a plan that's right for you and your
family. And that's it for this one
folks. Like this video if it helped.
Share it with someone who's researching
term plans like Arjun. And I'll see you
in the next deep dive. Until then, happy
insurance hunting.